Overall Summary (Stars 3/5)
I am inclined to hire Alex Showers for IC3 HW/SW QA Engineer role.
Alex comes with experience dealing with problems in both hardware and software domains and the interaction between the two. His breadth extends from using cloud based software applications all the way to hardware devices and RF/Electrical signals. He was able to explain challenging situations he faced, admits gaps and learns from short comings. He has faced situations requiring him to improvise in building software automation and hardware contraptions, to get the job done. He is customer focussed and does not hesitate to iterate in delivering products.
Alex has been a manager and an IC (QE/QA) and the lines were blurry in our discussion. While he claims to be hands-on and inclined to an IC-role, he lacked specificity in his responses that I’d expect from an IC. While not a negative, requires data points from other domain specific competencies to validate.
———
Put Customer First, (Rating - stars: 3/5)
We discussed prioritizing customers’ needs ahead of business’.
Alex gave an example of finding a data retention issue during QA of a highly sensitive cloud connected metal detector that he was the manager for. Even though it was flagged by his team it went unnoticed for too long introducing serious risk to the business due to regulatory non-compliance. However, once the dev team addressed it, Alex helped put automation in place to test all permutations resulting from the many different versions of hardware and software. He also went above and beyond to test the performance after validation to ensure it meets customer needs to prevent business issues.
Alex understands customer needs and ensures the products he is responsible for, meet and exceed customer expectations. He had good learnings from this experience to ensure ownership exists for issues found even if it needs to be escalated up the management chain. Alex however was vague in his responses without specifics and the word ‘customer’ seemed to add to that confusion as it meant external business customer for him - he did not think of internal teams as his customers.
Act now, iterate, (rating - starts 3/5)
We discussed the need to act with incomplete information.
Alex talked about validating various interfaces by injecting alerts about metal detection. But they soon realized it was not testing the actual hardware due to which his team had to improvise and use a fan based contraption to exercise the full pipeline from the metal detector through the software stack. He also had to account for the issues related to RF interference making the problem more challenging. On follow-up probing he explained how they approached this solution incrementally and shipping products that initially required physical presence to debug.
Overall, Alex is inclined to act to solve problems quickly even if they are not the best and understands shipping basic products first and improving them over time. As with the earlier example, explanations were not specific and not backed by data - required follow-up questions to determine the problem and the impact.
Past Projects/Initiatives Delivers (And Lessons From Failed Ones) (rating - 4/5)
We discussed projects in his career that he is proud of as well as the largest project on some measure.
He offered examples of testing and characterizing the performance of the novel mesh network his company built and how he was wearing many different hats and doing whatever was needed to ensure the products were demonstrable to customers in a real setup at scale. On follow-up he specifically talked about the complexity of fan-out vs power degradation of the mesh. Likewise, for complexity and scale, he offered another example where they had to simulate injecting objects into metal detectors in different 3D planes and orientations.
Through this discussion it was evident that he transcends the hardware/software boundary doing anything needed to get the right outcome for his team and business. He did not hesitate to admit that some of the work he thought complex at that time (10+ years ago) feels simplistic now because of advances in technology. He is able to deal with many variables, setbacks, and lack of tooling in his test environments, all of which are positive.
———
